# Door-Drishti-Groundstation
Door-Drishti-Groundstation is an inititative by New Leap Initiative team of K.J.Somaiya Insitute of Engineering and Information Technology, Sion, Mumbai. Started as a hobby space club activity in the college, the team has eveolved in to a DIY community based on campus with special interests in space and rf technology. With team the scale of projects have also evolved. 
Door-Drishti_Groundstation project is aimed at development of an inexpensive, flexible and easily reproducible tracking platform for "Low Earth Orbit" satellites. The project takes lot of its inspiration from previous projects like "Satnogs (https://satnogs.org/)" and "K3NG rotatators (https://github.com/k3ng/k3ng_rotator_controller)" as well as other diy satellite tracking projects by HAM operators and Space enthusiasts.
# Core Idea
The project differs from the other projects by the virtue of its core ideas of :-
1. Enabling the access to space using inexpensive, repurposed and easily accesible materials and fabrication techniques.
2. Rather than involving complex and expensive fabrication procedures which requires certain level of expertise, using simpler methods which enable a person (especially students) to start building things from scratch and learn the involved techiques on their way up.
3. Involving community in collaborative development for software developed by the community, for the community, with the help of the community.
4. Building the project in incremental levels, so as not put burden of any form on the maker, while enabling atleast some fraction of desired results to be available in very version, increasing as you go higher from version to version.
# Structure of the project
The project is distributed in several versions and sub-versions. Each version represents a major change in hardware and platform, while smaller modifications would be added in the subsequent sub-versions. Every version would have a list of hardwares involved in it which would be given in the form of excel sheet including the estimate cost of each component as well as recommended source, where the component was sourced from. There would also be build instructions and required specification files for each component involved included in the specific directories of versions and sub versions.
# Contributing
The project is an actively developed one and is updated every now and then. As of release, only a few versions of projects have been worked upon some of which also are not yet release ready. Thus you may find lot of directories in projects just intialised and work in progress. However, the root repository will have a to-do list where-in the desired specification for each version and sub-version which are yet to be completed or released would be updated frequently. If one wants to contribute for a given sub-version or version, they may clone the repositories and create a pull request for their codes and files. These files may include the hardware suggestions, build process suggestions and softwares too. Team would examine all the requests as per the policies and formats set for the release. If team finds a contribution perfectly fitting, the pull request would directly be requested, otherwise contributers would either be notified of required changes which they could do to get the files pulled or would be notified for non-acceptance of the request too.

# Supporting
The team is at its intital state and is in need for a lot of support. You may show it by liking, sharing and subscribing to the teams channel and pages on youtube, facebook and twitter at following addresses. Also any type of financial help or help interms of components and materials is also appreciated in exchange for a shout-out to the supporter. For these helps you may contact the official email address of the team nli@somaiya.edu
